# CS-320

How can I ensure that my code, program, or software is functional and secure? How do I interpret user needs and incorporate them into a program? How do I approach designing software?

Being able to interpret the needs of users and incoporating those needs into a program is a major factor in how I keep my code secure and functional. Before beginning any part of the coding process in the assignments I completed for this course, I did my best to make sure I had full understanding over what was being asked of me, and what the program needed to do in order for it to function properly. If you don't understand what the users need the program to do, you won't be able to make the program function as it should. Once I understood what I needed to do, I built code that would meet these needs to the best of my ability, and then created JUnit tests to validate that the code met the requirements. Efficient and thorough testing is another factor that greatly enhances the functionality and effectiveness of a program, as you can use the coverage levels of built tests to ensure requirements are met and that the code is strong.

Interpreting user needs requires both communication and understanding from both parties - developers and testers need to know exactly what the program needs to do, what it shouldn't do, and how the users are expecting to interact with each part of the program. From there, going step by step through the requirements and incorporating them into the code will make sure that the requirements are being met and that the program will function as the users intend. As I mentioned above, frequent testing is important to make sure we find as many bugs and defects as early as possible to avoid escapements down the line in the SDLC. Communication between the developers and testers will make a big impact during this stage in ensuring little to no issues are missed, and that all needs from the users are considered and applied.

I approach designing software from a methodical and straightforward perspective, with an emphasis on understanding and communication. I want my code to follow current procedures as much as possible, with as much scalability as I can to make the program easily adaptable in the future. Prior to actually building out any code, I like to have as much understanding as possible going in - while this has mainly applied to school assignments, having a full and clear understanding of what is expected of my code will make it much easier to build the program right the first time. This applies to receiving feedback, as well - I'm very open to receiving feedback, and do my best to incorporate any feedback I'm given into future work to enhance my code.
